---
toc: true
layout: post
description: Comp Sci Vocabulary/Note (includes bullets and tables)
categories: [markdown, Comp Sci]
title: Vocabulary/Notes for various hacks
---
# Week 1 Focus and Habits Hack (WIP)

# collapse

## Video Notes (includes 10 insights)

###### Origins
- She sent a survey about what students thought about Yale culture; students are stressed about being in Yale and can't enjoy pleasures or take advantage of opportunities
- 40% of college students have greater than average stress, a third have severe depression, more than 40% have lack of hope, etc.
- Santos therefore wanted to help using her knowledge in psychology (including positive psychology, where happy people are studied, and behavior change, to figure out how to change habits)... and made a course about it (Psychology and the good life)
- 2 parts: positive psychology and the *practice* of the good life. To build this practice, rewiring habits became part of the syllabus (including gratitude, social connection, sleep, etc.)
- No changes to syllabus upon submission, became popular

###### Class Content: 10 insights
1. Happiness is controllable and can be improved (some is controlled by heritability, but not all)
1. Location of residence, salary, and other life circumstances matter less than we think (positive and negative events have a temporary impact on happiness). Therefore, removing the "bad stuff" isn't the way to maximize happiness.
1. It is challenging (but possible) to become happier. This requires building daily habits that happy people have. The agile methodology, like the "Good Life" course, requires that habits be built. These habits will include having a daily standup meeting for planning and task delegation, maintaining issues for short-term tasks and the scrum board for organizing those tasks. This ensures that tasks are completed at a consistent pace in accordance with the agile methodology (Principle 8).
- GI Joe Fallacy: A cartoon claimed knowing a concept/skill is half the work, and that is false. The skill must also be put into practice, and that's the majority of the work.
1. Intuitions about happiness **can be inaccurate**. The mind forecasts about what makes us happy (ex: salary, possessions), but increases in these things do not correlate with significant increases in happiness.
1. Happy people make time for social connections (spend more time with others). The agile framework would require working and with other people on computer projects. Communication in the agile framework requires in-person, face-to-face conversation (principle 6). This teamwork makes potential for social connections between effective group members, and this in turn may enhance happiness.
1. Helping others helps us (more than we expect) by making us happy. Helping others is integrated into the agile framework as when a student is having trouble with code, other group members can work with that student and teach how to fix the issue (this is also part of leadership skills) to help the group move along (Principle 4). This willingness to share help will ultimately lead to a better project and help with learning programming... along with the happiness along the way that comes with being helpful.
1. Make time for gratitude... daily. Happy people think/talk about the better people (rather than the annoying people). Writing down a list of good events daily increases happiness. It is also good to write a letter of gratitude and read it in-person to the person you are thanking. This reading of the letter connects the most with Agile Principle 6 (face-to-face conversation is the most effective mode of communication)
1. Healthy practice matter *more* than we think (exercise, sleep, etc.) Workouts has been shown to boost happiness for the day, while sleep deprivation significantly decreased happiness, some to depression levels.
1. Mindfulness (be in the present). Mindfulness is being aware of present sensory input (ex: how your feet feel when you stand, the room temperature, any sounds perceived, the color of your dish, etc.). More time spend in mindfulness is correlated with greater happiness, even compared to thinking about pleasant but non-present things.
1. Become wealthy... in terms of *time*. Time famine is being too busy... and time affluence is the opposite. People maximizing time affluence are happier.

## Gratitude Note Experience (WIP)