---
toc: true
layout: post
description: Includes Questions, Answers, Corrections
categories: [markdown, Comp Sci, 3 Week Sprint]
title: 3.3-3.4 Hacks Blog
permalink: /sprint/hacks2
comments: true
---
# 3.3 Hacks Part 1


# 3.3 Hacks Part 2

1) Given the code segment, give the values of **a**, **b**, **c**, and **d**
```
a ⟵ 7
b ⟵ 1
c ⟵ 3
d ⟵ 4
a ⟵ b
b ⟵ c + d
d ⟵ b
```

I'll make a table of changes for each line
| Line | Change | 
|-|-|
| 1 | a is 7 |
| 2 | b is 1 |
| 3 | c is 3 |
| 4 | d is 4 |
| 5 | a is b (1) |
| 6 | b is sum of c and d (7) |
| 7 | d is b (7) |

```
a ⟵ 1
b ⟵ 7
c ⟵ 3
d ⟵ 7
```

2) Given the code segment: What are the values of hot and cold?
```
hot ⟵ true
cold ⟵ false
cold ⟵ hot
hot ⟵ cold
```
After true was assigned to **hot** and false was assigned to **cold**, **hot8** (true) was assigned to **cold**, making both true. Assigning **cold** to **hot** (true to true) has no effect, so both are true (Answer is 1)

3) **Make two code segments with at least 5 variable definitions. Provide the answer and explain reasoning**

I think these are supposed to be sequencing challenges. OK here goes. For reference I'm doing these in *Python*.

```python
var1 = 987
var2 = 121
var3 = 1337
var2 = var3 - 1211
var1 = var2 % 7
varsum = var1 + var2 + var3
print(varsum)
```

The first three lines are rather self explanatory. I assigned these variables some values.

Line 4 is simple enough. The new value of **var2** is the value of **var3** minus 1211, which is 1337 - 1211 = 126. I used a calculator to avoid arithmetic errors.

Line 5 involves taking the remainder of 126 divided by 7, since this is a modulus function. Oddly enough, 126/7 is exactly 18, so the value of 0 is assigned to **var1**.

Line 6 involves adding all the variables (taking into account their new values). This is as simple as 0 + 126 + 1337 = 1463.

Line 7 just prints the sum I calculated.



Well here comes another challenge, which I'll do in pseudocode to demonstrate functionalities from 3.4

```
bricks ← "100 million"
milesDriven ← "fifty thousand"
natlDebt ← "thirty-one trillion dollars" 
worldPop ← "8 billion"
part1 ← substring(milesDriven, 1, 5)
part2 ← substring(bricks, 5, 7)
part3 ← substring(worldPop, 3, 7)
wordSalad ← concat(part1, part2, part3, natlDebt)
DISPLAY(wordSalad)
```

Lines 1-4 are simple enough. Assign some values to four variables.

Line 5 assigns the first 5 characters of **milesDriven** (which is "fifty") to **part1**

Line 6 assigns 7 characters from **bricks** to **part2**, starting with the fifth character from **bricks**. This is "million"

Line 7 assigns 7 characters from **worldPop** to **part3**, starting with the third character.  This is "billion"

Line 8 is a monstrosity. It concatenates each of the **part** variables and the **natlDebt** variable. This is assigned to the **wordSalad** variable.

Line 9 outputs **wordSalad**, which is "fifty million billion thirty-one trillion dollars"

To be honest, I don't know if it's possible to run commands inside the **concat** parameters, so I assigned each of the substring commands its own variable. In fact, I didn't find any of the **substr** or **concat** commands on the [exam reference sheet](https://apcentral.collegeboard.org/media/pdf/ap-computer-science-principles-exam-reference-sheet.pdf), which is very peculiar. Of course that only resulted in my code failing to function on an [online pseudocode tester](https://board.dan.onl/).



**Sequencing Challenge**: Find **num1** and **num2**

```python
num1 = 3
num2 = 1
num3 = 5
num1 = num2 + num3      
num2 = num1 + num3      # num2 is now the new num1 + num3
```

- Lines 1-3 are just defining variables.
- Line 4 assigns the sum of **num2** and **num3** to **num1**. The new value of **num1** is 5 + 1 = 6.
- Line 5 assigns the sum of **num1** and **num3** to **num2**. The new value of **num2** is 6 + 5 = 11.



# 3.3 Hacks Part 3


Looks like this doesn't exist.



# 3.4 Hacks

**Test 1**. Find the output.

```
firstName <- "Bob"
lastName <- "Smith"
var <- substring(firstName, 1, 1)
name <- concat(lastName, var)
email <- concat(name, "@gmail.com")
DISPLAY(email)
```

- Lines 1 and 2 assign values to the **firstName** and **lastName**.
- Line 3 has a **substring** command, which starts at the first character of the value of **firstName** and moves one character. The result (which is B) is assigned to **var**.
- Line 4 uses a **concat** command, which will concatenate (or chain) the inputs. It will take the **lastName** (Smith) and the **var** (B). The resulting string "SmithB" is assigned to **name**
- Line 5 cocatenates the **name** variable and the string "@gmail.com" and assigns this to **email**. The value of email is ***"SmithB@gmail.com"*** (this is the answer by the way)
- Line 6 prints the value of **email** to output.

**Test2**. Find the output

```
word1 <- "computer"
word2 <- "textbooks"
length1 <- len(word1)/2
length2 <- len(word2)/3
first <- substring(word1, 2, len1)
second <- substring(word2, len2+3, len2)
newWord <- concat(first, second)
DISPLAY(newWord)
```

 - Lines 1 and 2 assign values to **word1** and **word2**
 - Line 3: the **len** command counts the number of characters in a string. There are 8 characters in the value of **word1** (which is "computer"). This divided by 2 is 4, which is assigned to **length1**
 - Line 4: There are 9 characters in the value of **word2** (which is "textbooks"). This divided by 3 is 3, which is assigned to **length2**
 -Line 5 takes a substring command of the value of **word1**, going from the second character and reading however many characters is the value of **len1**. Oops, this variable doesn't exist!
 ```
 word1 <- "computer"
word2 <- "textbooks"
length1 <- len(word1)/2
length2 <- len(word2)/3
first <- substring(word1, 2, length1)
second <- substring(word2, length2+3, length2)
newWord <- concat(first, second)
DISPLAY(newWord)
```

-That's better. The value of **length1** is 4, so it will take 4 characters from "computer" starting from the second character. This will yield "ompu" which is assigned to **first**

- Line 6 takes substring of **word2** (which is "textbooks"), starting with the character corresponding to 3 more than **length2**, which is 6. It will then take the amount of characters equal to **length2**, which is 3. Therefore, "ook" will be assigned to **second**

- Line 7 will concatenate **first** and **second**, assigning this to **newWord**

-Line 8 prints **newWord**, which is ***ompuook***.