---
toc: true
layout: post
description: Includes Questions, Answers, Corrections
categories: [markdown, Comp Sci, 3 Week Sprint]
title: 3.16 Hacks Blog
permalink: /sprint/hacks5
comments: true
---

# Notes

- Algorithms can be written multiple ways. 
 - Sometimes different algorithms can achieve the same results, so it's good to accept a diversity of approaches to a problem.
 - Algorithms can have their nuances, however. Minor changes in the code can yield major changes in the results.
- Conditional expressions can be booleans, and vice-versa.


### Algorithms

Compare python code. Do they yield the same results?

```python
print("What did you roll on the dice?")
diceRoll = int(input())
if diceRoll >= 4:
    print("Nice roll!")
else:
    if diceRoll >= 2:
        print("Meh... You can do better")
    else:
        print("That was not a great roll!")
```



```python
print("What did you roll on the dice?")
diceRoll = int(input())
if diceRoll >= 4:
    print("Nice roll!")
if diceRoll >= 2:
    print("Meh... You can do better")
if diceRoll < 2:
    print("That was not a great roll!")
```

Notes
 - For inputs 4, 5, and 6, the first algorithm will only print **Nice roll!** since it fulfills the if condition of the roll being greater than 4; the else condition is ignored.
 - For inputs 4, 5, and 6, the second algorithm will print **Nice roll!** and also **Meh... You can do better**. This is because these rolls will not only satisfy the if condition for the former statement (the roll is at least 4), but also that of the latter statement (the roll is at least 2).
 - Given the nature of input programs, it is also possible to give negative inputs (which will be treated as less than 2), and integers greater than 6 (where the above notes on 4, 5, and 6 apply). It is also possible to enter strings and numbers with decimals, though this will output an error since the input is not an integer.


 The notes then gives a potential adjustment to code block 2 to correct the logic error

 ```python
 print("What did you roll on the dice?")
diceRoll = int(input())
if diceRoll >= 4:
    print("Nice roll!")
if diceRoll >= 2 and diceRoll < 4:
    print("Meh... You can do better")
if diceRoll < 2:
    print("That was not a great roll!")
```

### Conditionals and Booleans

Using AND and NOT operators can be helpful. The following two code blocks (pseudocode) are identical.

```
IF (isHoliday)
{
    school⟵false
}
ELSE
{
    IF(isWeekday)
    {
        school⟵true
    }
    ELSE
    {
        school⟵false
    }
}
```

This checks if there is a holiday. If this condition is true, the school condition is false. If false, the else condition is executed with a nested if statement about there being a weekday. If true, school is true (and if not, false).

Using AND and NOT can reduce this to a single line of code:

```
school⟵((NOT (isHoliday)) AND (isWeekday))
```

Using the AND operator means both conditions must be true to yield true. The following are the conditions:
   - isWeekday (set to True)
   - isHoliday (since there's a not statement, the desired condition is False)
If these are met, there's school (as is logical)


### Practice 1

Algorithms to sum all single-digit odd numbers. Do they work as intended?

```
sum⟵1
counter⟵3
REPEAT 4 TIMES
{
    sum⟵sum + counter
    counter⟵counter + 2 
}
DISPLAY sum
```

```
sum⟵0
counter⟵9
REPEAT UNTIL counter < 1
{
    sum⟵sum + counter
    counter⟵counter - 2
}
DISPLAY sum
```


- Algorithm 1 starts with 1 as a sum and 3 as a counter, the first two single-digit odd numbers. 4 times, the counter is added to the sum and is increased by 2. The sum is outputted. This yields 1 + 3 + 5 + 7 + 9 (the counter is added 4 times). This seems to work as intended.

- Algorithm 2 sets the initial sum to 0 and the counter to 9. Until the counter is less than one, the counter is added to the sum and decreases by 2. The sum is outputted. This yields 9 + 7 + 5 + 3 + 1, which is intended.

Using different algorithms to accomplish the same task can instill creativity within a developer, which may allow them to come up with solutions to novel problems later.

### Notes 2

- Algorithms can be based off an idea and can be a combination/modification of existing algorithms
- Iteration: Repeating associated lines of code a set number of times or until a certain condition is fulfilled
- Selection: Code is run based on a condition; multiple options are often available.

Example algorithm: Robots

