---
toc: true
layout: post
description: Includes Questions, Answers, Corrections
categories: [markdown, Comp Sci, 3 Week Sprint]
title: 3.12 3.13 Hacks Blog
permalink: /sprint/hacks5
comments: true
---

# Lesson 3.12: Calling Procedures


### Notes 1 

- Procedure = group of commands (named) affected by parameter (input)
   - Can be called a **method** or **function**; meant to be called during program execution (executes procedure before the next lines)
   - Return commands forcefully terminate procedure execution


Example (CollegeBoard Pseudocode; this is robot stuff)

```
PROCEDURE detourRight()
{
    ROTATE_RIGHT()
    MOVE_FORWARD()
    ROTATE_LEFT()
    MOVE_FORWARD()
    MOVE_FORWARD()
    ROTATE_LEFT()
    MOVE_FORWARD()
    ROTATE_RIGHT()
}
```

### Practice 1


1) Pick the best procedure based on a real-life calculation: `average speed = total time / total distance`

i) PROCEDURE calcAvgSpeed (distance, time) { DISPLAY (distance/time) }
ii) PROCEDURE calcAvgSpeed (distance) { DISPLAY (distance/time) }
iii) PROCEDURE calcAvgSpeed (distance, time) { DISPLAY (time/distance) }

Notes
- Option 1 has arguments for both parameters, distance and time, and divides distance by time appropriately in the display command. **This is correct**.
- Option 2 has arguments for only distance. There is no way to input time into the procedure, so there may be issues with the execution.
- Option 3 has arguments for both parameters, but divides time by distance. This is not the desired calculation.

2) See the given procedure in CollegeBoard Pseudocode

```
PROCEDURE heightenEmotions(myEmotion)
{ moreEnergy ← CONCAT(myEmotion, "!!!")
moreVolume ← UPPER(moreEnergy)
RETURN moreVolume }
```

Context given: CONCAT concatenates two strings; UPPER converts string to uppercase only. Suppose the following was run:

heightenEmotions("im mad")

Will nothing be displayed?

This question is interesting because I cannot verify the existence of the command **UPPER** from the [college board reference sheet](https://apcentral.collegeboard.org/media/pdf/ap-computer-science-principles-exam-reference-sheet.pdf). In fact, this resembles the **upper()** command from [Python](https://www.w3schools.com/python/ref_string_upper.asp). For the purposes of the question, I'll assume it exists and acts exactly as it does in Python (that is, it does not modify numbers, symbols, and spaces).

From the wording of the prompt "James Hunter then sees this line of code," it is safe to interpret that the procedure was called after it was defined. As a result, it will execute normally. It will append 3 exclamation marks to the end of the **im mad**, make the letter characters all uppercase, and return this string to the caller. The procedure did not include any display commands, and there were no display commands after the code. Therefore, nothing will be displayed even though the code is running normally.

Answer: **True**.


3) This procedure calculates carbon footprint given a set number of miles and set number of passengers for a flight.

```
PROCEDURE calcFlightFootprint(numMiles, numPassengers) 
{
    CO2_PER_MILE ← 53.29
    carbonPerFlight ← numMiles * CO2_PER_MILE
    carbonPerPassenger ← carbonPerFlight / numPassengers
    RETURN carbonPerPassenger
}
```

This code will be used to calculate carbon footprint for one passenger on two flights: a 2451 mile flight with 118 passengers and a 3442 mile flight with 252 passengers. Which calculates the total foodprint?

1) totalFootprint ← calcFlightFootprint(2451, 118) + calcFlightFootprint(3442, 252)
2) totalFootprint ← calcFlightFootprint(2451, 118 + 3442, 252)
3) totalFootprint ← calcFlightFootprint((2451, 118) + (3442, 252))
4) 
```
laNyCarbon ← calcFlightFootprint(2451, 118) 
nyLondonCarbon ← calcFlightFootprint(3442, 252) 
totalFootprint ← laNyCarbon + nyLondonCarbon
```

Note: The miles parameter goes first, while the passengers parameter goes second. None of the options swap these parameters.

Options 2 and 3 feature strange inputs of the parameters. The parameters must be inputted with the number of miles first, with a comma, a space, then the number of passengers. For syntax, the parameters may not be inputted any other way. As such, options 2 and 3 will not execute the procedure properly.

Options 1 and 4 input the correct corresponding number of miles and number of passengers into the corresponding flights and use the procedure and operators to get the total carbon footprint. Option 4 provides greater clarity as to which flight is responsible for the majority of the carbon footprint through the use of variables for each flight, but both options calculate total carbon footprints successfully.

### Notes 2

- Procedures, like other lines of code, have the top lines executed first and the bottom lines executed last

### Practice 2

Example: an item receives a 20% discount then an 8% tax. Find the final cost for an $80 item.

```
PROCEDURE applyDiscount (cost, percentDiscounted) 
{
    temp ← 100 - percentDiscounted
    temp ← temp / 100
    cost ← cost * temp
    DISPLAY(cost)
    RETURN(cost)
}

PROCEDURE applytax(cost, percentTaxed) 
{
    temp ← 100 + percentTaxed
    temp ← temp / 100
    cost ← cost * temp
    DISPLAY(cost)
}

```

I fixed the display commands (previously python **print()** commands) and polished some variable names to ensure they correspond.

In this case, I would execute the commands in this order:


```
input ← applyDiscount(80, 20)
applytax(input, 8)
```

Where input will be equivalent to the output of the first command (assuming I'm running these one-by-one in a console and not using a script). If I was to run this as a script, I would be required to add a **RETURN(cost)** command to end of the applyDiscount procedure. The temp variable that is set to the output of applyDiscount must be distinct from any variables used in the procedures (otherwise, the output will override those variables permanently).

The final cost of the item is $69.12

Temperature: Use the procedure to convert 80 degrees Fahrenheit to Celsius

```PROCEDURE convert_Fahrenheit(temperature)
{
    Celsius ← temperature - 32
    Celsius ← Celsius * 5/9
    DISPLAY(Celsius)
}
```

I polished up a few issues, including spelling and removing spaces from the procedure name. Anyways, execution should be simple.

`convert_Fahrenheit(80)`

This converts to 26.6666666... degrees celsius.

# Lesson 3.13: Developing Procedures


### Notes 1

- Procedures can return values, execute statements, or both
- Procedures should have descriptive yet concise names
   - Know potential parameters (input)

There was an example I decided not to copy. I'll get on with the practice.

### Practice 1

1) Write a procedure to rotate a robot 180 degrees.

Of course this is pseudocode, so I'll be sure to follow the syntax.

```
PROCEDURE rotateBack()
{
    ROTATE_RIGHT()
    ROTATE_RIGHT()
}
```

2) Write a procedure to make the robot take a detour while moving left.

```
PROCEDURE leftDetour()
{
    ROTATE_LEFT()
    MOVE_FORWARD()
    ROTATE_RIGHT()
    MOVE_FORWARD()
    MOVE_FORWARD()
    ROTATE_RIGHT()
    MOVE_FORWARD()
    ROTATE_
}